# Lucene-New-Articles

Document retrieval can be de ned as the matching of some stated user query against a set of free-text records. These records could be any type of mainly unstructured text, such as newspaper articles, real estate records or paragraphs in a manual. User queries can range from multi-sentence full descriptions of an information need to a few words. The aim of this task is to use open source Apache Lucene search engine to index and search a speci c collection of documents. We seek to achieve maximum mean average precision score for our retrieved documents by using di erent techniques for indexing the documents and parsing the queries. There are two runs of execution, one with using narrative tag of the topic queries and one without using it. Out of these two, retrieving documents for queries not using narrative tag performed better.

# Conclusion
Java custom parsers were implemented to optimally parse the 525k documents and query topics file. Different approaches specifically to parse the huge corpus were tried out using an event-driven architecture such as SAX, to parse in less than 10 minutes. After referring to Lucene papers and from previous experience, different indexing and searching approach were apllied and distinguishing results were produced. Standard English analyzer, Stemmer and Stemmer with custom stop word list were the approaches applied. Multiple fields from query topic file gave an option to use query searching in multiple ways. Custom stemmer gave the best precision and recall results especially when the query was formed by applying custom stop words on the combination of title and description. The precision was reduced whenever narrative is added in the query search. The overall experiment gave an insight that every step is critically important right from parsing, indexing to query searching. Also, the precision and recall rates can be improved by customizing the query searching and applying carefully chosen stop word list.
